Anixa Biosciences has developed a non-invasive blood test, Cchek™, for the early detection of cancer, which has demonstrated efficacy with 20 different types of cancer.

Anixa's primary commercial focus is on developing a prostate cancer confirmatory test, Cchek™ PCC, which has demonstrated sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 45%. Anixa is currently conducting activities to support marketing of the test, including the development of marketing materials, education of key opinion leaders in urology, and development of a reimbursement path for the test. Anixa has also formed a subsidiary, Certainty Therapeutics, to develop immuno-therapy drugs against cancer and have initially focused on the development of a treatment for ovarian cancer using CAR-T technology. Anixa is working with researchers at Moffitt to complete studies necessary to submit an IND application with the FDA. While the results of the studies are positive, there are many uncertainties in drug development, and most drugs fail to reach commercialization.

Anixa's long term vision is to have one or more tests based upon the Cchek™ platform to serve each of the markets identified above, including confirmatory testing, treatment monitoring, and recurrence testing. Anixa is also developing a breast cancer vaccine that targets alpha-lactalbumin, a protein present in healthy breast tissue only when a woman is lactating and disappears when she stops nursing her child. The vaccine aims to prevent breast tumors from forming and is currently being tested in clinical grade materials. However, Anixa faces intense and dynamic competition from larger and better-funded pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, governmental agencies, and public and private research institutions. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by mergers and acquisitions, which may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of Anixa's competitors.

Anixa's commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient, or are less expensive than any products that Anixa may develop. As of October 31, 2019, Anixa had eight employees, seven full-time and one part-time, working for the company and subsidiaries. 