The ADDvantage Technologies Group, Inc. provides turn-key wireless infrastructure services and distributes and services electronics and hardware for the telecommunications industry.

The company's revenues are primarily generated in the United States, with a smaller portion coming from Canada, Central America, Asia, Europe, Mexico, South America, and Other. The company has changed its organizational structure with the acquisition of Fulton and the sale of the Cable TV segment, resulting in the Wireless Infrastructure Services and Telecommunications segments. The Wireless segment provides installation and upgrade services for cell sites and small cells for 5G, while the Telecommunications segment offers new and used telecommunication networking equipment, repair and testing services, and decommissioning services for surplus and obsolete equipment. The company's sales and marketing are predominantly performed by its experienced internal sales and customer service staff, outside sales representatives, and many online sales channel platforms. The company believes its investment in on-hand inventory, product supply channels, and experienced sales and customer service team create a competitive advantage for them.

The Wireless segment experiences increased demand on certain product offerings during the months between late spring and early fall when severe weather or consistent rain tends to be more prominent than at other times during the year. The company faces competition from other wireless service companies and numerous resellers in the marketplace. The Telco segment differentiates itself from other resellers in the marketplace by offering a broad range of new, refurbished, and used inventory, sourcing unique and high demand inventory, offering repair and testing capabilities, having experienced sales support staff, having a sales force with strong technical knowledge, and providing multiple services for customers. Working capital practices differ by segment, with the Wireless segment utilizing quick payment accounts receivable programs and the Telco segment focusing on inventory and accounts receivable. The company has sufficient funds available from cash on hand, future cash flows, quick payment accounts receivable programs, and the bank revolving line of credit to meet its working capital needs for the foreseeable future.

The company is not dependent on a single or few customers to support its business on an ongoing basis company-wide, with sales to its largest customer accounting for approximately 12% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2019 and sales to its largest five customers accounting for 37% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2019. The company had 188 employees at September 30, 2019, and management considers its relationships with its employees to be excellent. 