Advaxis, a biotechnology company focused on developing and commercializing Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) Technology antigen delivery products for immunotherapy, aggressively prosecutes and defends its patents and proprietary technology.

The company has Orphan Drug Designation (ODD) with the FDA for several products and intends to use expedited FDA programs for serious conditions. However, the successful commercialization of new drug products depends on the extent to which reimbursement for those drug products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time, and even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained, less favorable policies and rates may be implemented in the future. Additionally, manufacturing, sales, promotion, and other activities following product approval are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States, including CMS, the HHS Office of Inspector General, and HHS Office for Civil Rights, among others. Healthcare providers, physicians, and third-party payors may expose the company to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which the company markets, sells, and distributes any drugs for which it obtains marketing approval.

The company's future marketing and activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for its products, if approved, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state and third-party reimbursement for its products, and the sale and marketing of its product candidates, are subject to scrutiny under these laws. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Affordable Care Act (ACA) have created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit fraudulent actions and false claims related to healthcare benefit programs, including private third-party payors. The ACA also imposes new annual reporting requirements through the Physician Payments Sunshine Act for covered manufacturers for certain payments and "transfers of value" provided to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family and medical device manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers, formulary managers, and beneficiaries on the other hand. The company may also be subject to data privacy and security regulation by both the federal government and the states in which it conducts business. Similar state and foreign fraud and abuse laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services.

In order to distribute products commercially, the company must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of drug and biological products in a state. All of the company's activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal and state enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions could prevent or delay marketing approval of Advaxis' product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities, and affect the company's ability to profitably sell any approved products. The Affordable Care Act, for example, contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products through increased rebates for drugs reimbursed by Medicaid programs, extend Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, provide for mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal healthcare programs. Other federal health reform measures have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted, and there has been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products. Congress and the current administration have each indicated that they will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs, and the current administration recently released a “Blueprint”, or plan, to reduce the cost of drugs. Advaxis' collaborations, partnerships, and agreements with other companies are a key component of its corporate strategy, and ongoing clinical studies and agreements with leading oncology pharmaceutical companies help validate the potential of Lm Technology in cancer treatment protocols.

However, before Advaxis can market its products outside the United States, it must gain regulatory approval from the respective authorities in each country, and the requirements for clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary widely. Additionally, individual states in the United States have been passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, which could impact Advaxis' ability to profitably sell its products. The company has entered into agreements with multiple third-party organizations to handle the manufacturing, testing, and distribution of product candidates, and has constructed a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility and laboratory to develop and manufacture clinical-grade products. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapid technological developments and a high degree of competition, and Advaxis faces competition from established and emerging pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others. The competition includes investigational new drugs and/or products developed using other technologies, some of which have completed numerous clinical trials.

The speed with which Advaxis can develop immunotherapies, complete preclinical testing, clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities to market are expected to be important competitive factors. The company's management team has extensive experience in oncology development, including contract research, development, manufacturing and commercialization across a board range of science, technologies, and process operations. The company has 35 full-time employees engaged in research and development activities, finance, business development, facilities, human resources, and administrative support. The company rents necessary offices and laboratories to support its business. 